a lot of times you can tell how a
meeting's going to go when the Press is
allowed in and the leaders are allowed
to speak both with President Joe Biden
and vice president Cala Harris their
remarks in front of the camera with
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu were incredibly brief uh
incredibly brief for how these usually
go uh Harris vice president Harris
saying she looks forward to the
conversation uh President Biden saying
they have a lot to talk about uh so
obviously sending the message that this
was going to a tough meeting but more
important is what we heard from vice
president Kamal Kamal Harris who is
likely going to be the Democratic
nominee for president uh very different
comments than we've heard from other
Biden Administration officials she began
and again these remarks were not on her
schedule they staff felt the need that
she needed to come out here and make
this point and of course there was the
usual Ironclad support for Israel but
then more than we've heard from pretty
much any us politician uh at this at
this level there was a lot of disc about
the absolute horror that the people in
Gaza are living through and dying uh she
talked about the numbers of starvations
the number of people who are food
insecure the number of people who had to
move several times she talked about
seeing pictures of dead children and of
course to our audience you might assume
that that is a normal thing because we
are seeing pictures of dead children you
don't see that in the US media you don't
see it on the front pages of the
newspapers almost hardly at all there is
very little discussion about the plight
of the people in Gaza so she did spend
quite a bit of time talking about that
but then I think the line that really
summed up what her meeting was and what
the message was for the Prime Minister
she said talking about a ceasefire it's
time to get this done Patty khain Al
jazer
Washington well Ramy HRI is the public
policy fellow at the American University
of Beirut and he joins us now live from
Boston thanks for joining us Ram strong
statement there from the vice president
she seemed to emphasize with
Palestinians certainly not something
we've heard from Joe Biden to that
extent but what do you think she was
trying to achieve with that
statement she was um doing several
things at the same time she was uh
reaffirming uh the established American
position for total support for Israel
always and forever she was making a
point that that support is not
uh uh totally without any limits that
there has to be some uh concern for
international law and Decent Behavior
and other things that have to be
respected in the way that Israel
conducts its genocidal attack she was
sending a tremendously important message
to the Palestinian people and everyone
who supports them around the world
because For the First Time Ever she was
talking even though it was only rhetoric
but it was unprecedented rhetoric
that both reaffirmed the
self-determination requirement and
statud for the Palestinians and more
importantly in my view she humanized
Palestinian people for the first time
ever in my 50 years of following uh
Palestinian Israeli uh contestation in
the United States for the first time
ever we he we have a senior American
official talking about children and
mothers and families and starvation and
people fleeing three times as real
people and this is an extraordinary
symbol of possibly more changes to come
and finally she was sending a message to
the critical electoral uh constituency
in the United States mostly young people
Progressive Jews Arab and
asian-americans Black and Hispanic
Americans others Church groups many
groups who have clearly said they do not
support the genocide in in Gaza by
Israel that is done with American
weapons and political support and money
and this constituency is big enough that
it could deny the American uh presidency
to the Democrats in November if nothing
is done so we we saw her send four or
five very important messages to very
important constituencies well and we'll
we'll get to that in a moment where
you're talking about certainly the
American uh public but months ago
President Joe Biden announced a us-led
ceasefire deal we remember it was a a
plan that was to end the war in Gaza
they said that this was a US Le plan
that hasn't happened so far now is her
meeting with the Israeli Prime Minister
likely to have made any difference or at
least achieve anything in terms of this
ceasefire
deal we'll find out in the next week or
so uh what she's done is aligned the
American position at the highest level
articulated in public very firmly she's
aligned that with the large constituency
in Israel especially the armed forces
that wants the ceasefire to happen
immediately because that's the best way
for the Israelis to get back U their
hostages most of whom are still alive
some are dead uh so if there can be a
convergence between the American
official position a major constituency
in Israel especially the armed forces
and the public the likelihood is the
pressure will become too great for for
Netanyahu to uh to to keep avoiding this
thanks very much Ry so much to onp pick
there in that statement thanks for
joining us Ry R in
Lebanon my
pleasure make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer